1.0 Understanding Esssential Parameters.
  1.1 IOC Indicators of Comprimise
  Here are the most common list of IOCs
  1. IP Address
  2. Domain Name
  3. User Agent
  4. Host Name
  5. File Hashes
  6. Specific Pattern

2.0 What are we looking for -IOC's 
  1. What are the infected file(s) downloaded and their hashes?
  2. What is URL/Domain of the infected site?
  3. What is the IP address of the infected machine
  4. What is the hostname of the infected machine
  5. What is the MAC address of the infected machined
  6. Any unusual command line pattern or Base64 encoded traffic
  7. Any exectued command lines just and after the event

3.0 Wireshark
Can be used in two ways. 
a.You can capture/record the outbound traffic from your computer. 
b.You can use a sample pcap from malware Main site: http://www.malware-traffic-analysis.net/

3.1 Interface
  1. In primary information on dashboard you can observe source,destination,time, protocol and info.
  2. It's important to enahance the dashboard to make our analysis easy.

3.1.1 Changing the display to maake it easier to view
a. Removed packet number - use right click on the filter heading and tick off
b. Removed packet length - - use right click on the filter heading and tick off
c. Change default time view - View> Dislplay format> Date and time of day
d. Understading the protocols used - Statistics>protocol hierachy > Check percentages of each protocol (IP V4, IP V6, UDP (Mahcine related traffic like DHCP,DNS..etc), TCP (Application layer traffic - TLS,HTTP(Very important),IGMP, Address Resolution Protocol (ARP),
e. Create filter - In the protocol hierachy right click and apply the protocol required as a filter. Or use the search bar to apply the filter for the protocol required (just type http then can type http.request to only filter http request traffic(only get and post request) ).
f. Adding more columns 
  i. Go to HTTP section (you can find protocol details in white middle space) in a selected packet.        Find the the host (www.gordonramsay.com) right click and apply it as a column.
  ii. Add more columns - Right click on a one column (example source column)> Column preference> Select columns> New column > give name (source port, dst port) > and in the type column give the right value.
g. Adjust the columns as preffered, in the same screen.

3.2 Wireshark Analysis
1.  1. What are the infected file(s) downloaded and their hashes?
     a. Go to File > Export objects > HTTP > All HTTP objects which were downlaoded > Sort them by           the content type > focus on content type focusing the threat nature research from the                web (Mostly application, javascript or PHP files). also the size of the file.
     b. Save the files based on the file content type. Applications with x means exe. java means             Jar, shockwave fiels are swf etc. You can find the corresponding extension name for the file         from a quick websearch based on the content type.

    2. Use powershell to find the hash and check on the open source. or upload the files if the file        doesnn't have any confidential items

    3. What is URL/Domain of the infected site?
      a. Double click on the source on wireshark main dashboard, You can seee the hostnames of the             files that you saved
    4. What is the IP address of the infected machine
      a. Can be found on the main dashboard corresponding to the identified hostname. Also intenenet          protocol section in the white dashboard contains the destination ip as the destination
    5. What is the IP of the infected machine
      a. Would be the Source IP on the main dashboard corresponding to the malicious traffic                  observed.
    6. What is the hostname and MAC address of the infected machine
       a. Go to statistics > Protocol Hierachy > IPV4> UDP (Device details)>DHCP/NetBios while DHCP            being the most common to find mac protocols.> Apply DHCP as a filter
       b. Go to the white box > Drop down CHCP and you will find client MAC address. Also in some               option tag you will find Hosntname 99% of the time. Also you can apply it as a column.
    7. Any unusual command line pattern or Base64 encoded traffic?
       a. Generally if there are some encoded traffic. You can right click on the main wireshark               Dashboard and then right click and follow TCP stream. This will give you insight to all              TCP traffic streams. And if you found anything looks based 64 encoded you can copy those             packets into cyber chef and try decode them. 
    8. Aboves Step will cover any command lines exectued and you should be observing them as well.
      
